Thank you. I'm honored to be with you today for your commencement from
one of the finest universities in the world. Truth be told, I never
graduated from college and this is the closest I've ever gotten to a
college graduation.

I dropped out of Reed College after the first six months but then
stayed around as a drop-in for another eighteen months or so before I
really quit. So why did I drop out? It started before I was born. My
biological mother was a young, unwed graduate student, and she decided
to put me up for adoption. She felt very strongly that I should be
adopted by college graduates, so everything was all set for me to be
adopted at birth by a lawyer and his wife, except that when I popped
out, they decided at the last minute that they really wanted a girl.
So my parents, who were on a waiting list, got a call in the middle of
the night asking, "We've got an unexpected baby boy. Do you want him?"
They said, "Of course." My biological mother found out later that my
mother had never graduated from college and that my father had never
graduated from high school. She refused to sign the final adoption
papers. She only relented a few months later when my parents promised
that I would go to college.

This was the start in my life. And seventeen years later, I did go to
college, but I naÃ¯vely chose a college that was almost as expensive as
Stanford, and all of my working-class parents' savings were being
spent on my college tuition. After six months, I couldn't see the
value in it. I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life, and no
idea of how college was going to help me figure it out, and here I
was, spending all the money my parents had saved their entire life. So
I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work out OK. It was
pretty scary at the time, but looking back, it was one of the best
decisions I ever made. The minute I dropped out, I could stop taking
the required classes that didn't interest me and begin dropping in on
the ones that looked far more interesting.

It wasn't all romantic. I didn't have a dorm room, so I slept on the
floor in friends' rooms. I returned Coke bottles for the five-cent
deposits to buy food with, and I would walk the seven miles across
town every Sunday night to get one good meal a week at the Hare
Krishna temple. I loved it. And much of what I stumbled into by
following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be priceless later
on. Let me give you one example.

Reed College at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy
instruction in the country. Throughout the campus every poster, everySubstring: 

label on every drawer was beautifully hand-calligraphed. Because I had
dropped out and didn't have to take the normal classes, I decided to
take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this. I learned about
serif and sans-serif typefaces, about varying the amount of space
between different letter combinations, about what makes great
typography great. It was beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in
a way that science can't capture, and I found it fascinating.

None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life.
But ten years later when we were designing the first Macintosh
computer, it all came back to me, and we designed it all into the Mac.
It was the first computer with beautiful typography. If I had never
dropped in on that single course in college, the Mac would have never
had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts, and since
Windows just copied the Mac, it's likely that no personal computer
would have them.

If I had never dropped out, I would have never dropped in on that
calligraphy class and personals computers might not have the wonderful
typography that they do.

My second story is about love and loss. I was lucky. I found what I
loved to do early in life. Woz and I started Apple in my parents'
garage when I was twenty. We worked hard and in ten years, Apple had
grown from just the two of us in a garage into a $2 billion company
with over 4,000 employees. We'd just released our finest creation, the
Macintosh, a year earlier, and I'd just turned thirty, and then I got
fired. How can you get fired from a company you started? Well, as
Apple grew, we hired someone who I thought was very talented to run
the company with me, and for the first year or so, things went well.
But then our visions of the future began to diverge, and eventually we
had a falling out. When we did, our board of directors sided with him,
and so at thirty, I was out, and very publicly out. What had been the
focus of my entire adult life was gone, and it was devastating. I
really didn't know what to do for a few months. I felt that I had let
the previous generation of entrepreneurs down, that I had dropped the
baton as it was being passed to me. I met with David Packard and Bob
Noyce and tried to apologize for screwing up so badly. I was a very
public failure and I even thought about running away from the Valley.
But something slowly began to dawn on me. I still loved what I did.
The turn of events at Apple had not changed that one bit. I'd been
rejected but I was still in love. And so I decided to start over.

I didn't see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from Apple
was the best thing that could have ever happened to me. The heaviness
of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner
again, less sure about everything. It freed me to enter one of the
most creative periods in my life. During the next five years I started
a company named NeXT, another company named Pixar and fell in love
with an amazing woman who would become my wife. Pixar went on to
create the world's first computer-animated feature film, "Toy Story,"
and is now the most successful animation studio in the world.

In a remarkable turn of events, Apple bought NeXT and I returned to
Apple and the technology we developed at NeXT is at the heart of
Apple's current renaissance, and Lorene and I have a wonderful family
together.

I'm pretty sure none of this would have happened if I hadn't been
fired from Apple. It was awful-tasting medicine but I guess the
patient needed it. Sometimes life's going to hit you in the head with
a brick. Don't lose faith. I'm convinced that the only thing that kept
me going was that I loved what I did. You've got to find what you
love, and that is as true for work as it is for your lovers. Your work
is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be
truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work, and the only
way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it
yet, keep looking, and don't settle. As with all matters of the heart,
you'll know when you find it, and like any great relationship it just
gets better and better as the years roll on. So keep looking. Don't
settle.

When I was young, there was an amazing publication called The Whole
Earth Catalogue, which was one of the bibles of my generation. It was
created by a fellow named Stuart Brand not far from here in Menlo
Park, and he brought it to life with his poetic touch. This was in the
late Sixties, before personal computers and desktop publishing, so it
was all made with typewriters, scissors, and Polaroid cameras. it was
sort of like Google in paperback form thirty-five years before Google
came along. I was idealistic, overflowing with neat tools and great
notions. Stuart and his team put out several issues of the The Whole
Earth Catalogue, and then when it had run its course, they put out a
final issue. It was the mid-Seventies and I was your age. On the back
cover of their final issue was a photograph of an early morning
country road, the kind you might find yourself hitchhiking on if you
were so adventurous. Beneath were the words, "Stay hungry, stay
foolish." It was their farewell message as they signed off. "Stay
hungry, stay foolish." And I have always wished that for myself, and
now, as you graduate to begin anew, I wish that for you. Stay hungry,
stay foolish.

Thank you all, very much.
